# PCoA as a surrogate for isolation by distance.

distribution of slopes contains 0.02 for all three sets To determine if the method used to evaluate isolation by distance is the correct surrogate for the process, we performed a simulation experiment. We first generated 311 randomly positioned locations using the observed geographical range of the data. To perform this, we sampled 311 latitudes longitudes from two uniform distributions each using the limits of the observed distribution of latitude and longitude in our dataset. We then constructed a geographical distance matrix by computing the Euclidean distance between each pair of randomly positioned localities. Next, we simulated a process in which geographical distance was significantly related to morphological distance by sampling from a normal distribution in which the mean of the distribution was set to 0.02*Geographical distance and the standard deviation to 1, 5 and 10. We used the absolute value of this sampling event as a surrogate of the manhattan morphological distance between a pair of individuals. We then reconstructed the morphological trait from the manhattan distance using the first axis of a Principal Coordinates Analysis (PCoA). The rationale behind this procedure is that the PCoA represents the distance matrix in space and thus, the distance between two points in the PCoA is proportional to the original manhattan distance. In a morphological trait, individuals that have similar trait values have lower morphological distances. Using the same rationale, we constructed then a PCoA with the simulated geographical distance matrix, representing the position in unidimensional space. Finally, we performed a linear regression between the simulated morphological trait and the geographic PCoA expecting that the resulting slope of the relationships was similar to the slope used to simulate the morphological distance matrix (i.e 0.02). We then repeated the simulation procedure 1000 times for each value of standard deviation. We then evaluated if the distribution of slopes was significantly different from 0.02 by finding the rank of 0.02 in the 1000 simulations and dividing by 1001. We illustrate the performance of our assumption in the histogram below. We found that there is a high probability that the simulated of simulations with different standard deviations (SD = 1: p = 0.48, SD = 5: p = 0.45, SD = 10: p = 0.45).